Assignment – Terro’s real estate agency 
Real estate data analysis – Exploratory data analysis, Linear Regression 
Problem Statement (Situation):  

“Finding out the most relevant features for pricing of a house” 
Terro’s real-estate is an agency that estimates the pricing of houses in a certain locality. The pricing is 
concluded based on different features / factors of a property. This also helps them in identifying the 
business value of a property. To do this activity the company employs an “Auditor”, who studies 
various geographic features of a property like pollution level (NOX), crime rate, education facilities 
(pupil to teacher ratio), connectivity (distance from highway), etc. This helps in determining the price 
of a property. 

The agency has provided a dataset of 506 houses in Boston. Following are the details of the dataset: 
Data Dictionary: 

Attribute |  Description 
CRIME     -   RATE per capita crime rate by town 
INDUSTRY  -   proportion of non-retail business acres per town (in percentage terms) 
NOX       -   nitric oxides concentration (parts per 10 million) 
AVG_ROOM  -   average number of rooms per house 
AGE       -   proportion of houses built prior to 1940 (in percentage terms) 
DISTANCE  -   distance from highway (in miles) 
TAX       -   full-value property-tax rate per $10,000 
PTRATIO   -   pupil-teacher ratio by town  
LSTAT     -   % lower status of the population 
AVG_PRICE -   Average value of houses in $1000's 

Objective (Task): 

Your job, as an auditor, is to analyze the magnitude of each variable to which it can affect the price of 
a house in a particular locality.  

To do the analysis, you are expected to solve these questions: 

1) Generate the summary statistics for each variable in the table. (Use Data analysis tool pack). Write 
down your observation. (5 marks) 

2) Plot a histogram of the Avg_Price variable. What do you infer? (5 marks) 

3) Compute the covariance matrix. Share your observations. (5 marks) 

4) Create a correlation matrix of all the variables (Use Data analysis tool pack). (5 marks) 
a) Which are the top 3 positively correlated pairs and  
b) Which are the top 3 negatively correlated pairs.
